# Final Project: Complete System, Smart Features, and Team Demo (Final Submission)

## GitHub Repository Link: https://github.com/Sinders87/QueueSmart-CS-Project.git

[...]

The repository includes:

    •   A fully integrated system.
    •   A smart feature (Smart wait-time estimation)
    •   Reporting functionality
    •   Commit history showing team contributions

## Additions

We have added a reporting module that allowed reports to be exportable in CSV format. The exported report includes users, services, queue activity, and wait times. We have added an Smart Feature to QueueSmart that allows wait times to update dynamically using the queue position and service duration. It improves the user experience by allowing them to more accurately understand the amount of time they have to wait to be serviced. This integrates with our existing system by using the code and data we already have and further displaying it to our Users.

## Code Coverage Report

Coverage achieved:
File            | % Stmts | % Branch | % Funcs | % Lines | Uncovered Line #s       
----------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|-------------------------
All files       |   59.96 |    44.66 |   62.71 |   62.36 |                                

## Team Contributions

Group Member | Contribution | Discussion Notes
|------------------|---------------------------|-----------------|
Storm | Made sure admin and user flows are separated, final testing of full system, handle final GitHub merge cleanup | Final Integration and Admin/User separation
Dennis | Improve backend reports route, generate CSV report, connect report download to admin side | Focused on Reporting Module
Joel | Created reporting module draft, verified all pages work, verification of history and notifications | Focused on verification
Aalakha | Improve/Display estimated wait logic using queue position and service duration, made wait times update dynamically | Smart/AI Assisted Feature

## Report Generation
The reports are generated by the backend from the SQLite database, converting it to CSV format, and sending it to the frontend for download with a click of the generate report button found only in the admin dashboard. As stated, only admins can access it. In these reports we generate the queue activity, showing the user ID, the username, type of service wanted, priority of the queue, wait status, queue position, estimated wait-time, and the time of joining the queue. The report then generates a section summarizing the wait times by service. Lastly, the reports generates a section dedicated to the user participation history. This shows the name of the user, the total times they have queued up, been served, and the amount of times left early. Below is an example of a generated report (will also include as file upload on canvas.)

=== QUEUESMART REPORT ===							
                            
QUEUE ACTIVITY							
ID	User	Service	Priority	Status	Position	Estimated Wait (min)	Join Time
6	Adam Jones	IT Help Desk	low	waiting	2	10	5/2/2026 3:40
5	Peter Parker	Registration	high	waiting	1	0	5/2/2026 3:40
4	Ada Wong	IT Help Desk	low	waiting	1	0	5/2/2026 3:39
3	Oprah Winfrey	Academic Advising	medium	waiting	2	15	5/2/2026 3:37
2	Johnny Snis	Financial Aid	medium	waiting	1	0	5/2/2026 3:36
1	John Smith	Academic Advising	medium	waiting	1	0	5/2/2026 3:35
                            
WAIT TIME SUMMARY BY SERVICE							
Service	Total Users	Avg Estimated Wait (min)	Users Served	Users Waiting	Users Canceled		
IT Help Desk	2	5	0	2	0		
Registration	1	0	0	1	0		
Academic Advising	2	7.5	0	2	0		
Financial Aid	1	0	0	1	0		
                            
USER PARTICIPATION SUMMARY							
User	Total Queue Joins	Times Served	Times Left Early				
Adam Jones	1	0	0				
Peter Parker	1	0	0				
Ada Wong	1	0	0				
Oprah Winfrey	1	0	0				
Johnny Snis	1	0	0				
John Smith	1	0	0				

